
An OpenShift cluster is enhanced by installing Operators. 

OpenShift Virtualization is installed through OpenShift Virtualization operator. To make an OpenShift cluster capable of running VMs:

- Install the OpenShift Virtualization Operator
- Create the hyperconverged instance resource.


The OpenShift Virtualization enhances the OpenShift by adding additional CRDs to the cluster. To check those CRDs.

__OpenShift Web Console > API Explorer > Filter to *No group*__

```bash
oc api-resources
```

Operators can be installed from Internet or from Catalog Sources. To check the catalog sources

__OpenShift Web Console > Operator Hub > *Source*__

<pre>
oc get CatalogSources -A
NAMESPACE               NAME             DISPLAY                   TYPE   PUBLISHER   AGE
<b>openshift-marketplace   gls-catalog-cs   GLS Operator Catalog Cs   grpc               33d</b>
</pre>


### Overview of the OpenShift Virtualization Settings

OCP Web Console > Administrator Perspective > Virtualization > Overview > Settings

Cluster 
> General settings > Live Migration
> Guest management

User
> Manage SSH keys



### Creating VM in OpenShift Virtualization

Create a VM inside the project __vms__ from an instance type and attach the added SSH key.

oc project vms

Check the data volumes created

```bash
oc get dv
```

Check the PVCs created. The VM uses a dv, but under the hood, the dv uses a pvc

```bash
oc get pvc
```

Check the VM, VMIs and Pods. The VMI is an instance of a VM and an abstraction of a Pod

```bash
oc get vm,vmi,pod
```

```bash
oc exec -it virt-launcher-rhel-9-test-w8qxm -c compute -- ps aux
```

Stop the VM and check that the VM resource is still there but not the VMI resource.




