
### Live Migration

The destination node for a live migration is determined by the node placement rules for a VM, such as node selectors, tolerations, and affinity rules.

To perform a live migration:

- The underlying PVC must use the `ReadWriteMany` (RWX) access mode.
- The pod network must __not__ be configured with the `bridge` binding type.
- Ports `49152` and `49153` must be available in the VM's virt-launcher pod.
- If a VM defines a CPU model, then the cluster must have an available node that supports the CPU.

During installation, the Red Hat OpenShift Virtualization operator creates a storage profile resource for each storage class.

<pre>
<b>oc get storageprofiles.cdi.kubevirt.io</b>
NAME                                                  AGE
nfs-storage                                           4m1s
ocs-external-storagecluster-ceph-rbd                  4m1s
ocs-external-storagecluster-ceph-rbd-virtualization   4m1s
ocs-external-storagecluster-ceph-rgw                  4m1s
ocs-external-storagecluster-cephfs                    4m
openshift-storage.noobaa.io                           4m
</pre>

To modify the storage profile resource to configure the default access and volume modes for a particular storage class.

```bash
oc edit storageprofile nfs-storage -n openshift-cnv
```

<pre>
...
spec:
  claimPropertySets:
  - accessModes:
    <b>- ReadWriteMany</b>
    volumeMode: Filesystem
...
</pre>


### Limitations of Live Migrations

All Live Migaration settings are stored in the `HyperConverged` CR. You can adjust the default settings for live migration limits and timeouts by editing the `HyperConverged` CR.

#### Changing Live Migration settings using CLI 

<pre>
oc get hyperconvergeds.hco.kubevirt.io -n openshift-cnv 
NAME                      AGE
<b>kubevirt-hyperconverged   29d</b>
</pre>

Check all the settings of the `HyperConverged` CR

```bash
oc get hyperconvergeds.hco.kubevirt.io -n openshift-cnv kubevirt-hyperconverged -o yaml | less
```
<pre>
...
<b>liveMigrationConfig:</b>
    allowAutoConverge: false
    allowPostCopy: false
    completionTimeoutPerGiB: 150
    parallelMigrationsPerCluster: 5
    parallelOutboundMigrationsPerNode: 2
    progressTimeout: 150
...
</pre>

Change the `parallelMigrationsPerCluster` to 15 and the `parallelOutboundMigrationsPerNode` to 10.

<pre>
# Save the hyperconverged configuration in the hyperconverged.yaml file
oc get hyperconvergeds.hco.kubevirt.io -n openshift-cnv kubevirt-hyperconverged -o yaml > hyperconverged.yaml

# Change the <code>parallelMigrationsPerCluster</code> from 5 to 15
sed -i 's/    parallelMigrationsPerCluster: <b>5</b>/    parallelMigrationsPerCluster: <b>15</b>/' hyperconverged.yaml

# Change the <code>parallelOutboundMigrationsPerNode</code> from 2 to 10
sed -i 's/    parallelOutboundMigrationsPerNode: <b>2</b>/    parallelMigrationsPerCluster: <b>10</b>/' hyperconverged.yaml

# Apply the new configuration
oc apply -f hyperconverged.yaml
</pre>

#### Changing Live Migration settings using the Web console

Some of the live migration settings may be changed through the OpenShift web console.

Go to __OpenShift console > Virtualization perspective > Overview > Settings > Cluster pane > General Settings > Live Migration__


### Configuring a Dedicated Network for Live Migrations


Red Hat recommends that you configure a dedicated network for live migrations. 

To create a dedicated network for live migration:

- Use the Kubernetes __*NMState*__ operator to configure a bridge network on your cluster nodes. 

- Create a network attachment definition for the dedicated network in the `openshift-cnv` project.

- Edit the live migration configuration in the `HyperConverged` CR and add the network: <NetworkAttachmentDefinition-Name>.

Below example shows a `liveMigrationConfig` with a `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` named __*live-migration-network*__ 

<pre>
apiVersion: hco.kubevirt.io/v1beta1
kind: HyperConverged
metadata:
  name: kubevirt-hyperconverged
...
spec:
...
  liveMigrationConfig:
    completionTimeoutPerGiB: 150
    <b>network: live-migration-network</b>
    parallelMigrationsPerCluster: 5
    parallelOutboundMigrationsPerNode:
    progressTimeout: 150
...
</pre>

### Live Migration Strategies

__*pre-copy*__

A target VM is created but the guest keeps running on the source VM until the entire VM state is transferred.

__*post-copy*__

A target VM is created and the guest starts running on the target VM, then the source VM begins to send its state in chunks to the target VM. If the guest that is running on the target VM requests memory that is currently available only on the source VM, then that chunk of memory is copied to the target VM.

__*auto-converge*__

This strategy enhances the `pre-copy` strategy as if the migration cannot complete before the source VM mutates or modifies the VM state, then the guest CPU is throttled on the source VM until the migration is successful.

The `pre-copy` strategy is appropriate for most situations. However, the `pre-copy` strategy brings a risk that by the time a VM state chunk is copied from the source VM to the target VM, the guest on the source VM already mutated or modified the chunk. The `post-copy` and `auto-converge` strategies can mitigate that risk to ensure a successful convergence. Use the `post-cop`y and `auto-converge` strategies for migrations that might not converge easily, such as high-consumption database servers.

To change the migration strategy at the cluster level, you must edit the `HyperConverged` CR in the `openshift-cnv` project.

Below example configures live migration to use the `auto-converge` strategy.

<pre>
apiVersion: hco.kubevirt.io/v1beta1
kind: HyperConverged
metadata:
  name: kubevirt-hyperconverged
  namespace: openshift-cnv
...
spec:
...
  <b>liveMigrationConfig:
    allowAutoConverge: true
    allowPostCopy: false</b>
...
</pre>

### Live Migration Policy

Sometimes the live migration configuration that is set at the cluster level is not sufficient for a particular workload. In those situations, OpenShift Virtualization provides the `MigrationPolicy` CR, which defines a live migration policy.

A live migration policy declares the migration configuration to apply to a specific VM or to a group of VMs. 

Below example shows a live migration policy that sets the migration strategy to `auto-converge`, and that applies to a __namespace__ labeled `database-workloads: "True"` and all __VMs__ labeled `kubevirt.io/environment: "production"` inside it.

```yaml
apiVersion: migrations.kubevirt.io/v1alpha1
kind: MigrationPolicy
metadata:
  name: prod-database-policy
spec:
  allowAutoConverge: true
  selectors:
    namespaceSelector:
      database-workloads: "True"
    virtualMachineInstanceSelector:
      kubevirt.io/environment: "production"
```

In OpenShift Virtualization, `allowAutoConverge` is a live migration setting that helps a virtual machine (VM) finish migrating when its workload is "dirtying" memory faster than it can be transferred.

How It Works

* CPU Throttling: When enabled, the system automatically detects if a migration is failing to converge (finish). It then begins to throttle down the VM's vCPUs, slowing down the guest's execution so it writes to memory less frequently.
* Incremental Slowdown: By default, QEMU starts by throttling the vCPU by 20% and increases this by 10% in each iteration until the migration can finally complete.
* Purpose: It is specifically designed for heavy workloads—like large databases—where the high rate of memory changes would otherwise cause the migration to run indefinitely. 


Configuration
You can as well enable this globally for the cluster by editing the HyperConverged custom resource (CR) or within a specific MigrationPolicy. 
Example configuration snippet:

spec:
  liveMigrationConfig:
    allowAutoConverge: true


### Starting, Monitoring, and Canceling a Live Migration

You may migrate VM using different ways.

__Using the Web Console:__

Virtualization > VirtualMachines > Select a VM > Action > Migrate

__Using the `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` manifest__

```bash
cat > migration-job.yaml
```
```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstanceMigration
metadata:
  name: migration-job
spec:
  vmiName: <VMInstanceName>
```

```bash
oc create -f migration-job.yaml
```

__Using the `virtctl` command__

<code>
<b>virtctl migrate vm1 -n <VMInstanceName></b>

VM web was scheduled to migrate
</code>



