

OpenShift authentication is provided by the Authentication operator

oc get co authentication

The authentication operator pod runs in the openshift-authentication-operator project

oc get pod -n openshift-authentication-operator

The operator is the supervisor managing the authentication capability (the employees). The authentication capability pods run in the openshift-authentication project.

oc get pod -n openshift-authentication

The configuration of authentication is provided by the oauth cluster resource.

oc get oauth cluster

oc describe oauth cluster

When OpenShift is installed, there is one admin user named kubeadminthat could be used to authenticate to the cluster and configure it with external identity provides. The password of the kubeadmin user could be found in the machine that was used to run the OpenShift installer in the ~/ocp4/auth directory in the kubeadmin-password.

To delete to the OpenShift cluster using the kubeadmin user, simply use this password.

oc login -u kubeadmin -p <KubeAdminPassword> https://api.ocp4.example.com:6443


It is recommended to delete the kubeadmin user once the OpenShift cluster has been configured with an identity provider and one additional admin is added. To delete the kubeadmin user, simply delete the kubeadmin secter in the kube-system project.

oc get secret/kubeadmin -n kube-system


What happens if OpenShift cannot contact the identity provider or if the identity provider is down?

kubeconfig file




To add an identity provider, update the cluster oauth resource either via CLI or the Web console.

For instance, to add an HTPassword as an indentity provider

htpasswd -c -b my_users mourad redhat123

cat my_users

Update the cluster oauth resource

Check the operator progress

oc get co/authentication

oc get pods -n openshift-authentication

oc extract secret/htpasswd-xxxxx -n openshift-config --to=-
