# The Kubernetes NMState Operator
   
The **NMState Operator** is a Kubernetes operator that provides a way to manage and configure network interfaces on nodes within a Kubernetes cluster. It uses the NMState library to perform state-driven network configuration and reporting

The operator reports the node network configuration, validates configuration syntax, and applies network configuration changes without a node reboot.

The NMState operator provides three API resources for managing the network configuration:

- **NodeNetworkState:** exists on each cluster node and is periodically updated to include the state of the network for that node

- **NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy:** describes the intended network configuration for OpenShift nodes. You can create and manage node network interfaces, such as declaring a Linux bridge, with a node network configuration policy.

- **NodeNetworkConfigurationEnactment:**


Deploy the Kubernetes NMState operator

Install the operator

**Operators** → **OperatorHub** → Search _nmstate_ then install **Kubernetes NMState Operator**

Create an NMState instance using the default values


The flow would be:

1- Label the nodes. For instance **_external-network=true_**.

2- Create a node network configuration policy. For instance, a **NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy** to configure a new Linux bridge **br0** with the **ens4** Ethernet device as the port.

3- Create a network attachment definition. For instance, a **NetworkAttachmentDefinition** with a name **database-network** of type **Linux bridge** for the bridge name **br0**.

4- Attach the network attachment definition to a VM. For instance, attach the **NetworkAttachmentDefinition** named **database-network** to the network **database-network** of type **Bridge**.




