# Building Base Containers

A `Containerfile` is a mechanism to automate the building of container images. Building an image from a Containerfile is a three-step process.

1. Creating a working directory
2. Writing the Containerfile
3. Building the image with Podman


## Creating a working directory

The working directory is the directory containing all files needed to build the image.

Creating an empty working directory is good practice to avoid incorporating unnecessary files into the image.


## Writing the Containerfile

The file name must be `Containerfile` or `Dockerfile` and contains (case-sensitive) instructions to build the custom image.

Instructions starting with a hash (#) are comments.

```
# This is a comment line
FROM ubi8/ubi:8.3 
LABEL description="This is a custom httpd container image" 
MAINTAINER Mourad NAKIB <mnakib@redhat.com> 
RUN yum install -y httpd less iputils telnet && \
    yum clean all
EXPOSE 80 
ENV LogLevel "info" 
ADD http://linkToPDFFile.pdf /var/www/html 
COPY ./src/ /var/www/html/ 
USER apache 
ENTRYPOINT ["/usr/sbin/httpd"] 
CMD ["-D", "FOREGROUND"]  
```

> An example of a link to a pdf file is

https://www.vmware.com/content/dam/digitalmarketing/vmware/en/pdf/techpaper/performance/pvrdma-hpc-setup-perf.pdf


### CMD and ENTRYPOINT

The Containerfile should contain at most one `ENTRYPOINT` and one `CMD` instruction. If both are present, the **last** instruction takes **precedence**.

`ENTRYPOINT` cannot be overwritten. `CMD` can be overwritten.

Examples below:

`ENTRYPOINT ["/bin/date", "+%H:%M"]`


`ENTRYPOINT ["/bin/date"]`
`CMD        ["+%H:%M"]`


In both cases, when a container starts without providing a parameter, the current time is displayed:

`$ sudo podman run -it ubuntu`
```
11:41
```

In the second case, the `CMD` can be overwritten.

`$ sudo podman run -it ubuntu +%A`
```
Tuesday
```



### ADD and COPY

`ADD` can copy local & remote files, and can also untar archives.

`COPY` can copy only local files.



## Building the image with Podman

The `podman build` command processes the Containerfile and builds a new image based on the instructions it contains

`$ podman build -t NAME:TAG DIR`

> DIR is the path to the working directory














